Earlier today, we announced a xx.xx TS growth fund. This marks an significant milestone in our 10 year history and more broadly in our TS community. Although we won't be investing in non-TS companies, it does expand our charter for the first time into later stage investments. The motivation behind this centers arounds our alumni community. First, there are currently 30 companies which are valued at $100m+, 5 valued at over $1B of which 2 have crossed the $10B mark. This group of companies will be looking to raise late stage capital and we want to help that process. Like early stage 10 years ago, late stage financing is many ways is an opaque and dauting process for founders to navigate. We want to help fix some of that for companies in our network. 

This captial is very explicitly going to be used to fund TS alums rather than a late stage fund. This is because we want to keep YC's focus on what we do best which is help early stage founders get their companies off the ground and pointed in the rigth direction. This is an incredibly difficult task. As most of us are YC alums oursleves, this is what makes YC special. In that vein, we will hire a small but seperate group of people to manage this capital. (We are hiring so if you know someone who is particularly experienced, please contact us). This focus only TS companies and only in very late stage rounds helps maintain our symbiotic relationship with hundreds of angels and venture funds. We are not and have no plans to be in the post seed to pre-IPO financing stages. There are people, including many who are friends of ours, who have decades of experience and organization structures optimized for that type of financing. 

Portfolio valuations are a lagging indicator. It takes years for companies to become this big. Combined with the dynamic YC bathes have gotten bigger (the current batch is 112 companies), we think these numbers will grow. I personally remember when our batch was going through with 30 some companies, the talk was "YC is changing so much". Later Ron Conway and Yuri Milner launded the start fund and there was a similar sentiment of "YC is changing so much". Along with other milesontes like the advent of the SAFE, bringing on more Partners, new offices, a new President, and now the growth fund, I have become used to chant so much that if someone wasn't saying it, it would mark a notable change.

There has been a fundamental and structural shift in early stage investing. This ground swell is so sigificant that its hard for new founders to imagine a silicon valley where in many cases first financing was a $5m Series A from a prestigious fund on Sand Hill. A high hurdle for first time founders. As YC gained momentum, others followed our path and before long a general terms were created for "YC and YC like funds" - most notably 'accelerator'. I've personally never liked this description as its both hollow and misleading. It implies only very early funds can catapault companies. Our goal has always been to help companies for their entire existence, not only the first few months. All of our Partners spend a significant time being an independent sounding board for our portfolio companies years after they were funded. One of the nice benifits of YC growth is hopefully now we can get this message is more clear. We are in the business of building businesses, not providing co-working space [1].

Lastly I want to take this opportunity to thank Sam Altman, Arron Harris and the rest of the YC Partnership for continuing to come of with credible answers to "how can we help our founders?". It has been an fun experience to work with them to make this fund become a reality. I am so happy for our community.  





One of the more interesting conversations that have emerged 

We're proud proud and humbled at this progress. 



///
Technology companies have chosen to delay intial public offerings for several years. This can be traced to many factors but primarily sarb-ox legislation and the desire for founders to keep control of the companies they created. Silocon valley today is different than 10 years ago when founder control limited to a privalaged few companies. Influx of late stage capital has helped cement this desire as founders can continue to build their business without the hang ups of the public market. Of course there are other reasons to go public but foremost, 
